---
date: 2020-07-01
---

# KUDO Dependencies

One of the most requested features (internally and externally) has been operator dependencies. We've experienced this pain ourselves: our own [Kafka](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/tree/master/repository/kafka) operator requires the user to manually [install Zookeeper](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/blob/master/repository/kafka/docs/v1.3/install.md) as a prerequisite. This sounds simple enough but can get out of hand quickly as our [Flink demo](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/tree/master/repository/flink/docs/demo/financial-fraud) shows.

We've been thinking about the best way of introducing dependencies to KUDO for a while now. A few months ago we created [KEP-29](https://github.com/kudobuilder/kudo/blob/main/keps/0029-operator-dependencies.md) that aimed at solving at least part of the problems. Dependencies can be a complex topic. KEP-29 is not trying to boil the dependency ocean but rather limits itself to installation dependencies only, i.e. your operator instance and all its dependencies (including transitive ones) will be installed and/or removed as one unit.

<!-- more -->

## KudoOperator Task

KUDO operators already have a mechanism to deal with installation dependencies called [plans, phases, and steps](plans.md) with serial or parallel execution strategy. This mechanism is already powerful enough to express any dependency hierarchy including transitive dependencies. As of KUDO 0.15.x, KUDO supports a `KudoOperator` task which allows you to specify a dependency on other operators. At the very least it requires the name of the operator to be installed. You can also provide an operator version (defaults to the latest one).

Here a simple example of a task specifying a dependency on the community Zookeeper operator version 0.3.0 (which will install [zookeeper 3.4.14](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/blob/master/repository/zookeeper/README.md))

```yaml
tasks:
  - name: deploy-zookeeper
    kind: KudoOperator
    spec:
      package: zookeeper
      operatorVersion: 0.3.0
```

This task can be used as part of e.g. `deploy` plan same as any other:

```yaml
plans:
  deploy:
    strategy: serial
    phases:
      - name: prereqs
        strategy: parallel
        steps:
          - name: first
            tasks:
              - deploy-zookeeper
      - name: main
        strategy: parallel
        steps:
          - name: second
            tasks:
              - deploy-main
```

As with other tasks, KUDO will make sure this task is healthy before moving to the next one. _"Healthy"_, in the case of the operator means that its `deploy` plan has finished successfully. Note, that any transitive dependencies of the zookeeper operator itself will also be resolved and installed in the right order. `KudoOperator` closely mimics the `kubectl kudo install` command semantics allowing to additionally specify the `appVersion` (defaults to most recent one) and the `instanceName` (will be generated by KUDO by default).

## Dependency Parametrization

Overall we wanted to encourage operator composition by providing a way of operator encapsulation. In other words, operator users should not be allowed to arbitrarily modify the parameters of embedded operator instances. The higher-level operator should define all parameters that its direct dependency operators need. If a child operator needs to be parametrised a parameter file can be specified using the `parameterFile` field. Let's take a look at an example. Suppose, we have two operators (_parent_ and _child_) and _child_ has a required parameter `PASSWORD` which is empty by default. First, the parent operator needs to specify a  parameter file for the child and reference it in the corresponding `KudoOperator` task:

```yaml
tasks:
  - name: deploy-child
    kind: KudoOperator
    spec:
      package: child-operator
      parameterFile: child-params.yaml 
```

`child-params.yaml` is located in the parents _template_ folder along with other template files:

```yaml
# parent/templates/child-params.yaml
PASSWORD: {{ .Params.CHILD_PASSWORD }}
```

Child `PASSWORD` value references the parent `CHILD_PASSWORD` parameter that can look like:

```yaml
# parent/params.yaml
apiVersion: kudo.dev/v1beta1
parameters:
  - name: CHILD_PASSWORD
    displayName: "child password"
    description: "password for the underlying instance of child operator"
    required: true
```

When installing the _parent_ operator the user then has to define the `CHILD_PASSWORD` as usual:

```shell script
$ kubectl kudo install parent -p CHILD_PASSWORD=secret
```

Note, that the _parent_ operator may decide to provide a sensible default or even to hardcode the password and not expose it at all to the end user.

## Summary

Obviously, there is more to dependencies than the right installation order. One area that KEP-29 deliberately avoided is life-cycle dependencies. It is easy to imagine a situation when a new operator (e.g Kafka) may want to depend on the existing Zookeeper instance. However, such life-cycle dependencies presents major challenges e.g. what happens when Zookeeper is removed? What happens when Zookeeper is upgraded, and the new version is incompatible with the current Kafka Instance? How can we ensure the compatibility? Anyway, we want to gather feedback before we address these issues so ping us if you have any ideas. For more information and implementation details, take a look at the [KEP-29](https://github.com/kudobuilder/kudo/blob/main/keps/0029-operator-dependencies.md), updated [Flink demo](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/pull/279) or [dependencies documentation](https://kudo.dev/docs/developing-operators/tasks.html#kudooperator-task).

<Authors about="zen-dog" />